README.md, before:

# Who is Thomas Gotwig? 🤔

<img src="assets/octocat.webp" width="20%" align="right">

Hellooo there! 👋 I'm a passioned programmer with background in **Bioinformatics** from my **Bachelor** study 👨‍🎓 Mainly interested in **DevOps**, **Cloud** and **Multimedia** topics 🧑‍💻

<details>
  <summary>⚡️ Recent activities</summary>

  <!--RECENT_ACTIVITY:start-->
1. ❌ Closed PR [#67](https://github.com/tgotwig/vidmerger/pull/67) in [tgotwig/vidmerger](https://github.com/tgotwig/vidmerger)<br>
2. 💬 Commented on [#53](https://github.com/tgotwig/vidmerger/issues/53#issuecomment-2844265357) in [tgotwig/vidmerger](https://github.com/tgotwig/vidmerger)<br>
3. 💬 Commented on [#53](https://github.com/tgotwig/vidmerger/issues/53#issuecomment-2844241718) in [tgotwig/vidmerger](https://github.com/tgotwig/vidmerger)<br>
4. 📖 Created new wiki page [Section-Subsection](https://github.com/tgotwig/vidmerger/wiki/Section-Subsection) in [tgotwig/vidmerger](https://github.com/tgotwig/vidmerger)<br>
5. 📔 Created new repository [tgotwig/dotfiles](https://github.com/tgotwig/dotfiles)<br>
6. 💬 Commented on [#27](https://github.com/tgotwig/vidmerger/issues/27#issuecomment-2817331898) in [tgotwig/vidmerger](https://github.com/tgotwig/vidmerger)<br>
7. ✔️ Closed issue [#27](https://github.com/tgotwig/vidmerger/issues/27) in [tgotwig/vidmerger](https://github.com/tgotwig/vidmerger)<br>
8. 💬 Commented on [#12](https://github.com/tgotwig/vidmerger/issues/12#issuecomment-2817093727) in [tgotwig/vidmerger](https://github.com/tgotwig/vidmerger)<br>
9. ✔️ Closed issue [#12](https://github.com/tgotwig/vidmerger/issues/12) in [tgotwig/vidmerger](https://github.com/tgotwig/vidmerger)<br>
10. 💬 Commented on [#39](https://github.com/tgotwig/vidmerger/issues/39#issuecomment-2817093274) in [tgotwig/vidmerger](https://github.com/tgotwig/vidmerger)<br>
11. ✔️ Closed issue [#39](https://github.com/tgotwig/vidmerger/issues/39) in [tgotwig/vidmerger](https://github.com/tgotwig/vidmerger)<br>
12. ✔️ Closed issue [#44](https://github.com/tgotwig/vidmerger/issues/44) in [tgotwig/vidmerger](https://github.com/tgotwig/vidmerger)<br>
13. ✔️ Closed issue [#51](https://github.com/tgotwig/vidmerger/issues/51) in [tgotwig/vidmerger](https://github.com/tgotwig/vidmerger)<br>
14. 🎉 Merged PR [#7](https://github.com/tgotwig/homebrew-linux-vidmerger/pull/7) in [tgotwig/homebrew-linux-vidmerger](https://github.com/tgotwig/homebrew-linux-vidmerger)<br>
15. 🎉 Merged PR [#8](https://github.com/tgotwig/homebrew-vidmerger/pull/8) in [tgotwig/homebrew-vidmerger](https://github.com/tgotwig/homebrew-vidmerger)<br>
16. ✌️ Released [🎉 0.4.0](https://github.com/tgotwig/vidmerger/releases/tag/0.4.0) in [tgotwig/vidmerger](https://github.com/tgotwig/vidmerger)<br>
17. 💪 Opened PR [#7](https://github.com/tgotwig/homebrew-linux-vidmerger/pull/7) in [tgotwig/homebrew-linux-vidmerger](https://github.com/tgotwig/homebrew-linux-vidmerger)<br>
18. 💪 Opened PR [#8](https://github.com/tgotwig/homebrew-vidmerger/pull/8) in [tgotwig/homebrew-vidmerger](https://github.com/tgotwig/homebrew-vidmerger)<br>
19. 📖 Created new wiki page [Home](https://github.com/tgotwig/vidmerger/wiki/Home) in [tgotwig/vidmerger](https://github.com/tgotwig/vidmerger)<br>
20. 📖 Created new wiki page [🏡-Home](https://github.com/tgotwig/vidmerger/wiki/%F0%9F%8F%A1-Home) in [tgotwig/vidmerger](https://github.com/tgotwig/vidmerger)<br>
21. 🎉 Merged PR [#65](https://github.com/tgotwig/vidmerger/pull/65) in [tgotwig/vidmerger](https://github.com/tgotwig/vidmerger)<br>
<!--RECENT_ACTIVITY:end-->
</details>

<details>
  <summary>💡 My Coding Principles</summary>

  <details>
    <summary>↳ ☕ Java, Python, ...</summary>

  - **Keep** code compact — limit function parameters (ideally ≤ 3), avoid deep nesting, and stick to a reasonable maximum line length.
  - **Use** consistent and meaningful naming — predictable naming patterns make searching, navigation, and bulk refactoring (e.g., find & replace) much more reliable and efficient.
  - **Write** tests at multiple levels — use **unit tests** to check always one function without I/O (mock external dependencies where needed), **integration tests** to check always one function with real I/O, and **end-to-end tests** to check a full chain of functions (like `Camunda` or `Selenium` workflows, or a cli tool).
  </details>

  <details>
    <summary>↳ 🌳 Versioning (Git)</summary>

  - **Use** a Git GUI tool like `GitKraken` — a visual overview often leads to cleaner commits and makes advanced Git features (like interactive rebase or cherry-pick) more accessible.
  - **Keep** commits focused and atomic — aim for “one logical change per commit” to make reviews easier and enable selective acceptance or reversion.
  - **Maintain** a consistent code style — avoid mixing style and functional changes in one commit; first apply the style update, then the logic change.
  - **Preserve** full commit history when migrating repositories — instead of squashing into a single commit, add the new remote and push as-is.
  - **Write** meaningful commit messages — use the imperative mood (“Add feature,” not “Added feature”), and avoid vague messages like “Update” to help others understand changes at a glance.
  - **Tag** commits not only for versioning — but also to highlight other special commits.
  - **Create** a `backup` branch before doing a complex rebase — to not accidently overwrite commits in a wrong way.
  </details>

  <details>
    <summary>↳ 🌐 Networking</summary>

  - **Document** the network layout using a diagram that includes key IPs, DNS names, and boundaries between subnets or zones.
  - **List** physical and virtual devices in a table with their IPs, DNS names, and MAC addresses, group them in CIDRs.
  - **Prefer** DNS names over hardcoded IPs, for better clarity and minimal fixes when the IP changes.
  - **Provide** a central "intranet" homepage linking to all important internal services.
  </details>

  <details>
    <summary>↳ ⚙️ Automation</summary>

  - **Build** the project ideally with 1 cmd — after cloning it, typically via `Taskfile`, also in CI / CD.
  - **Centralize** testing and releasing via CI / CD — and run them mostly during pull requests.
  - **Monitor** your resource usages — and have reportings before server crashes due to it.
  - **Backup** your data frequently in 3 ways — while removing some versions over time.
  - **Don't** try to automate everything — have runbooks for certain tasks.
  </details>

  <details>
    <summary>↳ 🐳 Containerization</summary>

  - **Configure** via env vars — better than via files with different encodings and permissions.
  - **Grant** 3rd party access via scoped tokens — avoid overly permissive ones.
  - **Print** all logs to the terminal — for a flexible understanding.
  - **Develop** with dev images — with all your fav tools in it.
  - **Minimize** images — for running in production.
  </details>

  <details>
    <summary>↳ 🔮 Terraform</summary>

  - **Design** modules for reusability — for deploying slightly different resources easily.
  - **Manage** the state file in an object storage — ensure it’s versioned, and use a lock file to prevent concurrent modifications. Consider maintaining a shared calendar for coordinated infrastructure changes.
  </details>
</details>

🐿️ [ChipChap](https://chipchap.s3.eu-central-1.amazonaws.com/index.html) - GUI app For editing chapter infos in video and audio files. (WiP)

🤓 Dev Links 👉 [Chocolatey](https://community.chocolatey.org/profiles/tgotwig) | [Dev](https://dev.to/tgotwig) | [Observable](https://observablehq.com/@tgotwig?tab=profile) | [Stackoverflow](https://stackoverflow.com/users/6244047/thomas-gotwig?tab=profile) | [Vagrantup](https://app.vagrantup.com/tomisia)

🍻 Social Links 👉 [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/in/tgotwig)

Commit message:

Add db queries to "Java, Python, ..."

README.md, after:

# Who is Thomas Gotwig? 🤔

<img src="assets/octocat.webp" width="20%" align="right">

Hellooo there! 👋 I'm a passioned programmer with background in **Bioinformatics** from my **Bachelor** study 👨‍🎓 Mainly interested in **DevOps**, **Cloud** and **Multimedia** topics 🧑‍💻

<details>
  <summary>⚡️ Recent activities</summary>

  <!--RECENT_ACTIVITY:start-->
1. ❌ Closed PR [#67](https://github.com/tgotwig/vidmerger/pull/67) in [tgotwig/vidmerger](https://github.com/tgotwig/vidmerger)<br>
2. 💬 Commented on [#53](https://github.com/tgotwig/vidmerger/issues/53#issuecomment-2844265357) in [tgotwig/vidmerger](https://github.com/tgotwig/vidmerger)<br>
3. 💬 Commented on [#53](https://github.com/tgotwig/vidmerger/issues/53#issuecomment-2844241718) in [tgotwig/vidmerger](https://github.com/tgotwig/vidmerger)<br>
4. 📖 Created new wiki page [Section-Subsection](https://github.com/tgotwig/vidmerger/wiki/Section-Subsection) in [tgotwig/vidmerger](https://github.com/tgotwig/vidmerger)<br>
5. 📔 Created new repository [tgotwig/dotfiles](https://github.com/tgotwig/dotfiles)<br>
6. 💬 Commented on [#27](https://github.com/tgotwig/vidmerger/issues/27#issuecomment-2817331898) in [tgotwig/vidmerger](https://github.com/tgotwig/vidmerger)<br>
7. ✔️ Closed issue [#27](https://github.com/tgotwig/vidmerger/issues/27) in [tgotwig/vidmerger](https://github.com/tgotwig/vidmerger)<br>
8. 💬 Commented on [#12](https://github.com/tgotwig/vidmerger/issues/12#issuecomment-2817093727) in [tgotwig/vidmerger](https://github.com/tgotwig/vidmerger)<br>
9. ✔️ Closed issue [#12](https://github.com/tgotwig/vidmerger/issues/12) in [tgotwig/vidmerger](https://github.com/tgotwig/vidmerger)<br>
10. 💬 Commented on [#39](https://github.com/tgotwig/vidmerger/issues/39#issuecomment-2817093274) in [tgotwig/vidmerger](https://github.com/tgotwig/vidmerger)<br>
11. ✔️ Closed issue [#39](https://github.com/tgotwig/vidmerger/issues/39) in [tgotwig/vidmerger](https://github.com/tgotwig/vidmerger)<br>
12. ✔️ Closed issue [#44](https://github.com/tgotwig/vidmerger/issues/44) in [tgotwig/vidmerger](https://github.com/tgotwig/vidmerger)<br>
13. ✔️ Closed issue [#51](https://github.com/tgotwig/vidmerger/issues/51) in [tgotwig/vidmerger](https://github.com/tgotwig/vidmerger)<br>
14. 🎉 Merged PR [#7](https://github.com/tgotwig/homebrew-linux-vidmerger/pull/7) in [tgotwig/homebrew-linux-vidmerger](https://github.com/tgotwig/homebrew-linux-vidmerger)<br>
15. 🎉 Merged PR [#8](https://github.com/tgotwig/homebrew-vidmerger/pull/8) in [tgotwig/homebrew-vidmerger](https://github.com/tgotwig/homebrew-vidmerger)<br>
16. ✌️ Released [🎉 0.4.0](https://github.com/tgotwig/vidmerger/releases/tag/0.4.0) in [tgotwig/vidmerger](https://github.com/tgotwig/vidmerger)<br>
17. 💪 Opened PR [#7](https://github.com/tgotwig/homebrew-linux-vidmerger/pull/7) in [tgotwig/homebrew-linux-vidmerger](https://github.com/tgotwig/homebrew-linux-vidmerger)<br>
18. 💪 Opened PR [#8](https://github.com/tgotwig/homebrew-vidmerger/pull/8) in [tgotwig/homebrew-vidmerger](https://github.com/tgotwig/homebrew-vidmerger)<br>
19. 📖 Created new wiki page [Home](https://github.com/tgotwig/vidmerger/wiki/Home) in [tgotwig/vidmerger](https://github.com/tgotwig/vidmerger)<br>
20. 📖 Created new wiki page [🏡-Home](https://github.com/tgotwig/vidmerger/wiki/%F0%9F%8F%A1-Home) in [tgotwig/vidmerger](https://github.com/tgotwig/vidmerger)<br>
21. 🎉 Merged PR [#65](https://github.com/tgotwig/vidmerger/pull/65) in [tgotwig/vidmerger](https://github.com/tgotwig/vidmerger)<br>
<!--RECENT_ACTIVITY:end-->
</details>

<details>
  <summary>💡 My Coding Principles</summary>

  <details>
    <summary>↳ ☕ Java, Python, ...</summary>

  - **Keep** code compact — limit function parameters (ideally ≤ 3), avoid deep nesting, and stick to a reasonable maximum line length.
  - **Use** consistent and meaningful naming — predictable naming patterns make searching, navigation, and bulk refactoring (e.g., find & replace) much more reliable and efficient.
  - **Don't** write db queries by hand — do it via repository functions.
  - **Write** tests at multiple levels — use **unit tests** to check always one function without I/O (mock external dependencies where needed), **integration tests** to check always one function with real I/O, and **end-to-end tests** to check a full chain of functions (like `Camunda` or `Selenium` workflows, or a cli tool).
  </details>

  <details>
    <summary>↳ 🌳 Versioning (Git)</summary>

  - **Use** a Git GUI tool like `GitKraken` — a visual overview often leads to cleaner commits and makes advanced Git features (like interactive rebase or cherry-pick) more accessible.
  - **Keep** commits focused and atomic — aim for “one logical change per commit” to make reviews easier and enable selective acceptance or reversion.
  - **Maintain** a consistent code style — avoid mixing style and functional changes in one commit; first apply the style update, then the logic change.
  - **Preserve** full commit history when migrating repositories — instead of squashing into a single commit, add the new remote and push as-is.
  - **Write** meaningful commit messages — use the imperative mood (“Add feature,” not “Added feature”), and avoid vague messages like “Update” to help others understand changes at a glance.
  - **Tag** commits not only for versioning — but also to highlight other special commits.
  - **Create** a `backup` branch before doing a complex rebase — to not accidently overwrite commits in a wrong way.
  </details>

  <details>
    <summary>↳ 🌐 Networking</summary>

  - **Document** the network layout using a diagram that includes key IPs, DNS names, and boundaries between subnets or zones.
  - **List** physical and virtual devices in a table with their IPs, DNS names, and MAC addresses, group them in CIDRs.
  - **Prefer** DNS names over hardcoded IPs, for better clarity and minimal fixes when the IP changes.
  - **Provide** a central "intranet" homepage linking to all important internal services.
  </details>

  <details>
    <summary>↳ ⚙️ Automation</summary>

  - **Build** the project ideally with 1 cmd — after cloning it, typically via `Taskfile`, also in CI / CD.
  - **Centralize** testing and releasing via CI / CD — and run them mostly during pull requests.
  - **Monitor** your resource usages — and have reportings before server crashes due to it.
  - **Backup** your data frequently in 3 ways — while removing some versions over time.
  - **Don't** try to automate everything — have runbooks for certain tasks.
  </details>

  <details>
    <summary>↳ 🐳 Containerization</summary>

  - **Configure** via env vars — better than via files with different encodings and permissions.
  - **Grant** 3rd party access via scoped tokens — avoid overly permissive ones.
  - **Print** all logs to the terminal — for a flexible understanding.
  - **Develop** with dev images — with all your fav tools in it.
  - **Minimize** images — for running in production.
  </details>

  <details>
    <summary>↳ 🔮 Terraform</summary>

  - **Design** modules for reusability — for deploying slightly different resources easily.
  - **Manage** the state file in an object storage — ensure it’s versioned, and use a lock file to prevent concurrent modifications. Consider maintaining a shared calendar for coordinated infrastructure changes.
  </details>
</details>

🐿️ [ChipChap](https://chipchap.s3.eu-central-1.amazonaws.com/index.html) - GUI app For editing chapter infos in video and audio files. (WiP)

🤓 Dev Links 👉 [Chocolatey](https://community.chocolatey.org/profiles/tgotwig) | [Dev](https://dev.to/tgotwig) | [Observable](https://observablehq.com/@tgotwig?tab=profile) | [Stackoverflow](https://stackoverflow.com/users/6244047/thomas-gotwig?tab=profile) | [Vagrantup](https://app.vagrantup.com/tomisia)

🍻 Social Links 👉 [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/in/tgotwig)
